The purpose of this script was to analyze whether there was any relationship between income and whether or not counties switched the party they voted for over time. My initial hypothesis was that wealthy voters were trending towards the democrat party, and I wanted to see if this was a significant enough trend that it could be seen on the county level.  I also developed a secondary theory that maybe counties which were wealthier were happier with the status quo, while counties with less income growth, or more unstable income growth, were more likely to want to switch sides.  This analysis was supplemented with six visuals, including four maps that show which counties switched party each election, one map showing swing counties, and one map showing the frequency of counties voting democrat or republican.

The actual analysis was conducted in two main ways.  The first way was by tracking the relationship between income and voting over five separate elections.  The results were visualized with a series of violin plots with showed how income corresponded to voting.  The results for the entire nation showed that both parties received the bulk of their votes from lower to lower middle income people; democrats have some slightly higher income voters and also some slightly lower income voters while republican votes are clustered in between.  This distribution was remarkably constant across all five elections with no sign at all of actually wealthier voters trending democrat or poorer voters trending Republican.  There does not appear to be evidence of wealthy counties trending towards democrats when compared across all five elections.

The second level of the analysis was to divide the US into two categories: "swing counties," which voted for one party three times and the other party two times, and "stable counties," which voted for the same party at least four of five times.  The goal here was to see if counties that switched who they voted for had any different income characteristics than the stable counties.

 The series of stable counties showed up as having a significantly higher maximum county income (~250,000) than the swing counties (~140,000), which led to me developing the secondary theory that swing counties might have lower or less stable incomes on average. To test this theory I constructed a line plot that displayed income growth, adjusted for inflation, for both swing counties and stable counties.  Swing counties saw slightly better growth from 2000 to 2008.  However, from 2008 onward the trendlines for income growth in both swing counties and stable counties were touching, suggesting there was no difference in average incomes..  The fact that the top per capita income was significantly higher for stable counties suggests there were also significantly more poor counties in the stable counties series, enough that on a broad enough scale the wealthier and poorer counties averaged out to have the same income as the swing counties.

I would caution against over-interpreting this finding.  The fact that incomes are essentially the same in swing and stable counties does not mean that economic issues do not matter to these voters, or that they do not have legitimately distinct opinions on economic issues that simply cannot be gleaned from this data.  It just means that there is no evidence that the underlying economic conditions are any different in swing counties when compared to stable counties, or the country as a whole.

While income might be the same on average between swing counties and stable counties, this did not necessarily mean that the same was true of which swing counties voted for each party.  To try to take a closer I then re-ran the same violin plots on swing counties and stable counties to see if there was any difference in income for party preference.  The swing counties did indeed show that over the last five elections that higher income swing counties trended towards democrat while lower income swing counties trended towards republican.  This trend was not just noticeable, it was also essentially a reversal of the starting point in 2000, where slightly higher earning swing counties leaned republican and lower earning swing counties leaned democrat.  However, the bulk of swing counties that voted for either party still hovered around lower to upper middle classes.  There was not significant evidence that seriously wealthy voters were driving a significant trend of flipping counties towards democrats.  

In conclusion, there is no evidence that truly wealthy counties are causing a shift towards either side.  There is furthermore no evidence that underlying economic conditions are significantly different between swing counties and stable counties.  However,
However, there is solid evidence that among swing counties themselves, income has shown a relationship between party preference.  Upper middle income swing counties have trended towards democrat and lower middle income and lower income swing counties have trended republican, in clear reversal of the starting trend in 2000.   
